README.md, before:

# algebraic-connectivity-directed
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

Python functions to compute various notions of algebraic connectivity of directed graphs

## Requirements
Requires `python` >= 3.5 and packages `numpy`, `scipy`, `networkx` and `cvxpy`.

## Installation
`pip install algebraic-connectivity-directed`

## Usage
After installation, run `from algebraic_connectivity_directed import *`

There are 3 main functions:

1. Function `algebraic_connectivity_directed`: algebraic_connectivity_directed(G) returns `a, b, M` where `a` is the algebraic connectivity of the digraph G. The graph G is a `networkx` DiGraph object. The definitions of `a, b, M = Q'*(L+L')*Q/2` can be found in Ref. [2].

2. Function `algebraic_connectivity_directed_variants`: algebraic_connectivity_directed_variants(G,k) returns variations of algebraic connectivity of the digraph G.
The graph `G` is a `networkx` DiGraph object. Setting `k = 1, 2, 3, 4` returns a<sub>1</sub>, a<sub>2</sub>, a<sub>3</sub>, a<sub>4</sub> as defined in Ref. [5]. 

3. Function `compute_mu_directed`:
compute_mu_directed(G)
returns `mu(G)` defined as the supremum of numbers &mu; such that 
U(L-&mu;\*I)+(L'-&mu;\*I)U is positive semidefinite for some symmetric zero row sums
real matrix `U` with nonpositive off-diagonal elements where `L` is the Laplacian matrix
of graph `G` (see Ref. [1]).

`compute_mu_directed` accepts multiple arguments. If the input are multiple graphs G<sub>1</sub>, G<sub>2</sub>, G<sub>3</sub>, ... with L<sub>i</sub> the Laplacian matrix of G<sub>i</sub>, 
and all G<sub>i</sub> have the same number of nodes,
then compute_mu_directed(G<sub>1</sub>, G<sub>2</sub>, G<sub>3</sub>, ...) returns the supremum of &mu; such that there 
exist some symmetric zero row sums real matrix U with nonpositive off-diagonal elements 
where for all i, U(L<sub>i</sub>-&mu;\*I)+(L<sub>i</sub> '-&mu;\*I)U is positive semidefinite. This is useful in analyzing
synchronization of networked systems where systems are coupled via multiple networks. See Ref. [6].
The graph G is a `networkx` DiGraph object.

a<sub>1</sub> is the same as the value returned by algebraic_connectivity_directed(G)[0] (see Ref. [2]).
    
a<sub>2</sub> is the same as &#227; as described in Ref. [3].

a<sub>3</sub> is described in the proof of Theorem 21 in Ref. [3].

a<sub>4</sub> is equal to &eta; as described in Ref. [4].

If the reversal of the graph does not contain a spanning directed tree, then a<sub>2</sub> &le; 0.

If G is strongly connected then a<sub>3</sub> &ge; a<sub>2</sub> > 0.

a<sub>4</sub> > 0 if and only if the reversal of the graph contains a spanning directed tree.

## Examples

Cycle graph
``` 
from algebraic_connectivity_directed import *
import networkx as nx
import numpy as np
G = nx.cycle_graph(10,create_using=nx.DiGraph)
print(algebraic_connectivity_directed(G)[0:2])

>> (0.19098300562505233, 2.0)
print(algebraic_connectivity_directed_variants(G,2))
>> 0.1909830056250514
```  

Directed graphs of 5 nodes

```
A1 = np.array([[0,0,1,0,0],[0,0,0,1,1],[1,0,0,1,1],[1,1,0,0,1],[0,0,0,1,0]])     
G1 = nx.from_numpy_matrix(A1,create_using=nx.DiGraph)
print(compute_mu_directed(G1))
>>> 0.8521009635833089
print(algebraic_connectivity_directed_variants(G1, 4))
>>> 0.6606088707716056
A2 = np.array([[0,1,0,0,1],[0,0,0,1,0],[0,0,0,1,1],[1,0,0,0,0],[1,0,1,1,0]])  
G2 = nx.from_numpy_matrix(A2,create_using=nx.DiGraph)
A3 = np.array([[0,1,0,0,0],[1,0,1,0,0],[0,1,0,0,0],[0,0,1,0,0],[1,1,1,0,0]]) 
G3 = nx.from_numpy_matrix(A3,create_using=nx.DiGraph)
print(compute_mu_directed(G1,G2,G3))
>>> 0.8381214637786955
```
## References
1. C. W. Wu, "Synchronization in coupled arrays of chaotic oscillators 
with nonreciprocal coupling", IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems-I, vol. 50,
no. 2, pp. 294-297, 2003.

2. C. W. Wu, "Algebraic connecivity of directed graphs", 
    Linear and Multilinear Algebra, vol. 53, no. 3, pp. 203-223, 2005.

3. C. W. Wu, "On Rayleigh-Ritz ratios of a generalized Laplacian matrix of directed graphs", Linear Algebra
    and its applications, vol. 402, pp. 207-227, 2005.
    
4. C. W. Wu, "Synchronization in networks of nonlinear dynamical systems coupled via a directed graph", 
    Nonlinearity, vol. 18, pp. 1057-1064, 2005.

5. C. W. Wu, "Synchronization in Complex Networks of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems", World Scientific, 2007.

6. C. W. Wu, "Synchronization in dynamical systems coupled via multiple directed networks," 
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems-II: Express Briefs, vol. 68, no. 5, pp. 1660-1664, 2021.

Commit message:

added functio nto compute mu2 and other fixes

README.md, after:

# algebraic-connectivity-directed
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)

Python functions to compute various notions of algebraic connectivity of directed graphs

## Requirements
Requires `python` >= 3.5 and packages `numpy`, `scipy`, `networkx` and `cvxpy`.

## Installation
`pip install algebraic-connectivity-directed`

## Usage
After installation, run `from algebraic_connectivity_directed import *`

There are 4 main functions:

1. Function `algebraic_connectivity_directed`: algebraic_connectivity_directed(G) returns `a, b, M` where `a` is the algebraic connectivity of the digraph G. The graph G is a `networkx` DiGraph object. The definitions of `a, b, M = Q'*(L+L')*Q/2` can be found in Ref. [2].

2. Function `algebraic_connectivity_directed_variants`: algebraic_connectivity_directed_variants(G,k) returns variations of algebraic connectivity of the digraph G.
The graph `G` is a `networkx` DiGraph object. Setting `k = 1, 2, 3, 4` returns a<sub>1</sub>, a<sub>2</sub>, a<sub>3</sub>, a<sub>4</sub> as defined in Ref. [6]. 

3. Function `compute_mu_directed`:
compute_mu_directed(G)
returns `mu(G)` defined as the supremum of numbers &mu; such that 
U(L-&mu;\*I)+(L'-&mu;\*I)U is positive semidefinite for some symmetric zero row sums
real matrix `U` with nonpositive off-diagonal elements where `L` is the Laplacian matrix
of graph `G` (see Ref. [1]). Computed number may be smaller than the defined value due to the difficulty of the SDP problem.

4. Function `compute_mu2_directed`:
compute_mu2_directed(G)
returns `mu2(G)` defined as the eigenvalue with the smallest real part among eigenvalues of the Laplacian matrix `L` that do not belong to the all 1's vector `e` (see Ref. [5]).

`compute_mu_directed` accepts multiple arguments. If the input are multiple graphs G<sub>1</sub>, G<sub>2</sub>, G<sub>3</sub>, ... with L<sub>i</sub> the Laplacian matrix of G<sub>i</sub>, 
and all G<sub>i</sub> have the same number of nodes,
then compute_mu_directed(G<sub>1</sub>, G<sub>2</sub>, G<sub>3</sub>, ...) returns the supremum of &mu; such that there 
exist some symmetric zero row sums real matrix U with nonpositive off-diagonal elements 
where for all i, U(L<sub>i</sub>-&mu;\*I)+(L<sub>i</sub> '-&mu;\*I)U is positive semidefinite. This is useful in analyzing
synchronization of networked systems where systems are coupled via multiple networks. See Ref. [7].
The graph G is a `networkx` DiGraph object.

a<sub>1</sub> is the same as the value returned by algebraic_connectivity_directed(G)[0] (see Ref. [2]).
    
a<sub>2</sub> is the same as &#227; as described in Ref. [3].

a<sub>3</sub> is described in the proof of Theorem 21 in Ref. [3].

a<sub>4</sub> is equal to &eta; as described in Ref. [4].

### Properties

1. If the reversal of the graph does not contain a spanning directed tree, then a<sub>2</sub> &le; 0.

2. If G is strongly connected then a<sub>3</sub> &ge; a<sub>2</sub> > 0.

3. a<sub>4</sub> > 0 if and only if the reversal of the graph contains a spanning directed tree.

4. a<sub>1</sub>&le;&#956;&le;&#956;<sub>2</sub>.

5. &#956;=&#956;<sub>2</sub>=1 if the reversal of the graph is a directed tree.

## Examples

Cycle graph
``` 
from algebraic_connectivity_directed import *
import networkx as nx
import numpy as np
G = nx.cycle_graph(10,create_using=nx.DiGraph)
print(algebraic_connectivity_directed(G)[0:2])

>> (0.19098300562505233, 2.0)
print(algebraic_connectivity_directed_variants(G,2))
>> 0.1909830056250514
```  

Directed graphs of 5 nodes

```
A1 = np.array([[0,0,1,0,0],[0,0,0,1,1],[1,0,0,1,1],[1,1,0,0,1],[0,0,0,1,0]])     
G1 = nx.from_numpy_matrix(A1,create_using=nx.DiGraph)
print(compute_mu_directed(G1))
>>> 0.8521009635833089
print(algebraic_connectivity_directed_variants(G1, 4))
>>> 0.6606088707716056
A2 = np.array([[0,1,0,0,1],[0,0,0,1,0],[0,0,0,1,1],[1,0,0,0,0],[1,0,1,1,0]])  
G2 = nx.from_numpy_matrix(A2,create_using=nx.DiGraph)
A3 = np.array([[0,1,0,0,0],[1,0,1,0,0],[0,1,0,0,0],[0,0,1,0,0],[1,1,1,0,0]]) 
G3 = nx.from_numpy_matrix(A3,create_using=nx.DiGraph)
print(compute_mu_directed(G1,G2,G3))
>>> 0.8381214637786955
```
## References
1. C. W. Wu, "Synchronization in coupled arrays of chaotic oscillators 
with nonreciprocal coupling", IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems-I, vol. 50,
no. 2, pp. 294-297, 2003.

2. C. W. Wu, "Algebraic connecivity of directed graphs", 
    Linear and Multilinear Algebra, vol. 53, no. 3, pp. 203-223, 2005.

3. C. W. Wu, "On Rayleigh-Ritz ratios of a generalized Laplacian matrix of directed graphs", Linear Algebra
    and its applications, vol. 402, pp. 207-227, 2005.
    
4. C. W. Wu, "Synchronization in networks of nonlinear dynamical systems coupled via a directed graph", 
    Nonlinearity, vol. 18, pp. 1057-1064, 2005.

5.  C. W. Wu, "On a matrix inequality and its application to the synchronization in coupled chaotic systems," Complex Computing-Networks: Brain-like and Wave-oriented Electrodynamic Algorithms, Springer Proceedings in Physics, vol. 104, pp. 279-288, 2006.

6. C. W. Wu, "Synchronization in Complex Networks of Nonlinear Dynamical Systems", World Scientific, 2007.

7. C. W. Wu, "Synchronization in dynamical systems coupled via multiple directed networks," 
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems-II: Express Briefs, vol. 68, no. 5, pp. 1660-1664, 2021.
